# Liver disease prediction
V1.0: The goal of this project is to predict the classification of liver disease or no liver disease based on twelve biological features. 

## Getting Started

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine.

### Prerequisites

The following packages were used during the development of this code. Other versions may be supported, but cannot be guaranteed.

- python (version 3.7.0)
- pycodestyle (version 2.5.0)
- numpy (version 1.17.2)
- seaborn (version 0.9.0)
- pandas (version 0.25.1)
- flask (version 1.1.1)
- requests (version 2.22.0)
- matplotlib (version 3.1.0)
- jsonpickle (version 1.2)

### Installation

The following steps will help you set up the proper environment on your machine. All example commands are entered directly into terminal.

**Installing conda:**

```
cd $HOME
wget https://repo.anaconda.com/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
bash Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh -b
. $HOME/miniconda3/etc/profile.d/conda.sh
conda update --yes conda
conda config --add channels bioconda
echo ". $HOME/miniconda3/etc/profile.d/conda.sh" >> $HOME/.bashrc
```

**Creating conda environment:**

```
conda create -y -n <your_environment>
conda install -y python=3.7
```

**Activating conda environment:**

```
conda activate <your_environment>
```

**Installing pycodestyle:**

pycodestyle is used to ensure that all .py files adhere to the PEP8 style guidelines.

```
conda install -y pycodestyle
```

**Installing pandas:**

pandas is used to import data and organize it prior to the machine learning classification task

```
conda install -y pandas
```

**Installing scikit-learn:**

scikit-learn is a machine learning and provides implementations of classifiers, pipelines, confusion matrices, grid search, recursive feature elimination, etc. 

```
conda install -y -c anaconda scikit-learn
```

**Installing flask**

Flask is a simple Python web framework and provides the backbone of the prediction API

```
conda install -y -c anaconda flask
```

**Installing numpy:**

numpy is required for transformation of data prior to the machine learning classification task

```
conda install -y numpy
```

**Installing requests:**

requests is required to make HTTP requests to the REST API

```
conda install -y requests
```

**Installing matplotlib:**

matplotlib is required to build the visualizations of our exploratory data analysis

```
conda install -y matplotlib
```

**Installing seaborn:**

seaborn is required to build the visualizations of our exploratory data analysis

```
conda install -y seaborn
```

**Installing jsonpickle:**

jsonpickle is 

```
conda install -y jsonpickle
```

### Examples
viz.py calculates the mean and standard deviation for elements in a user-defined column of data, creates a histogram, boxplot, or combination figure, and saves the figure to a file. The following example will produce a histogram from column number 2 of the data randomly generated by gen_data.sh and save it to the file "sample_histogram.png"

```
bash gen_data.sh | python viz.py --out_file sample_histogram --col_num 1 --plot_type histogram
```

test_math.py runs several unit tests on the mean and standard deviation functions in math_lib.py to test both accuracy and proper error handling.

```
python test_math.py
```

test_viz.py runs several unit tests on the plotting functions in data_viz.py to test for the proper creation of the figure files.

```
python test_viz.py
```

## Authors

**Michael W. Chifala and Andrew Levitt** - University of Colorado, Boulder, CSCI 7000: Software Engineering for Scientists


## Acknowledgments

* Ryan Layer's CSCI 7000 "Development Environment" document
* Ryan Layer's CSCI 7000 "Continuous Integration with Travis CI" document
* Ryan Layer's CSCI 7000 "Test-Driven Development" document
* Ryan Layer's CSCI 7000 "Using libraries: Matplotlib" document
* PEP8 Style Guidelines: https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/
* Github: PurpleBooth/README-Template.md